# Node.js End User Feedback (NEUF) Meeting 2017-12-01

## Links

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WrOXMIlcvoQ
* **GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/6 
* **Minutes Google Doc:** https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oLUDZXxzldphOZKPwINW_SnsViwW51JE6ad-rKwF618/edit
* **Previous Minutes Google Doc:** N/A

## Present

- Dan Shaw (@dshaw - CommComm observer)
- Mike Hostetler (@mikehostetler)
- William Kapke (@williamkapke - CommComm, Individual Member Director)
- Mihai Ene-Pietrosanu (@mihaiep)
- Michael Dawson (@mhdawson - CommComm, TSC Chair)
- Tierney Cyren (@bnb - CommComm Co-Chair)

## Agenda

Extracted from [neuf-agenda](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/labels/neuf-agenda) labelled issues and pull requests from the [user-feedback](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback) repo prior to the meeting.
- User Feedback Meeting Cadence (ref: #2)
  - Friday 17:00 UTC / noon ET / 11am CT / 9am PT every 2 weeks starting 2017-12-01
- Add CoC, CONTRIBUTING.md, and Repo Accountability (ref: #4)
- Supporting the Node.js 2018 User Survey (ref: #8 )
- Bench-marking team request for survey (ref: nodejs/community-committee#153)
- Initial Users for feedback meetings (ref: #12)

## Notes

**Supporting the Node.js 2018 User Survey (ref: #8 )**
- [MikeH] Request previous year's data from the Foundation to be able to explore trend data.
- [MikeH] Issue created around getting survey results (ref: #14)
- [Dawson] We should make supporting the Annual Node.js Foundation survey a mandate of NEUF.
- [Tierney] The Annual Node.js User Survey is announced and launched each year at Node.js Interactive. The next Node.js User Survey will be launched at JS Interactive in October 2018.
- [dshaw] Let's reach out to Greg Wallace and invite him to attend the next meeting (on 2017-12-15).

**Bench-marking team request for survey (ref: nodejs/community-committee#153)**
- [dshaw] We should see if Greg Wallace could help to create a survey for Benchmarking using Foundation infrastructure (esp. Survey Monkey account).
- [Tierney] We should include Zibby Keaton as well.
- [dshaw] Let's invite both Greg Wallace and Zibby Keaton to the next NEUF meeting.
- [MikeH] As we create online surveys, let's keep in mind our goals to be able to do face-to-face outreach and support data collection from face-to-face sessions.
- [MDawson] It would be nice to get the survey input process started in 2017. Can we launch before the end of the year
- [dshaw] I'm happy to to meet with Greg prior to the next meeting to accelerate the process. Dawson and Tierney to join.

**Initial Users for feedback meetings (ref: #12)**
- [Dawson] I'd like to invite some local companies from Toronto to provide feedback. Are we ready to kick off sessions?
- [dshaw] To be respectful of everyone's time, what if we alternate organizational meetings with public outreach sessions during the bi-weekly cadence of the user-feedback meetings.
- [Dawson] We don't have to do it too frequently. Perhaps b-monthly.
- [dshaw] Let's target February 9th for the initial session.
- [Dawson] I'll create an issue to track this and point folks to.

**Closing Thoughts**
- [Kapke] Is this initiative interested in supporting feedback and outreach to Node.js users/companies who are evaluating Node.js?
- [dshaw] Very much interested in supporting potential Node.js adopters. In fact, I was just in France helping a major insurance provider kick off their selection and adoption of Node.js. I'm sure I could invite folks from that organization to share about that journey.
- [dshaw] We could invite folks to discuss this at the January 12th meeting.

## Upcoming Meetings

* The next meeting is scheduled for Friday, 2017-12-15 at 17:00 UTC / noon ET / 11am CT / 9am PT.
* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar
 - Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own calendar.

