# Node.js End User Feedback (NEUF) Meeting 2018-01-26

## Links

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ytj9uAsozDw 
* **GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/28 
* **Previous Minutes:** https://docs.google.com/document/d/1igMLOTd0TJHf0hbXqcLIl-tXmj9vlK9G3h1W2d9TQFo

## Present

- Dan Shaw (@dshaw - CommComm observer)
- Mihai Ene-Pietrosanu (@mihaiep- User Feedback member)
- Tierney Cyren (@bnb - CommComm Co-Chair)
- Joel Chen (@jchip WalmartLabs)

# Agenda
* Extracted from neuf-agenda labelled issues and pull requests from the user-feedback repo prior to the meeting.
* Intro / Attendance
* Key Initiatives
* 2017 Benchmarking WG Survey (ref: #22)
* End User Feedback - Looking for Participants (ref: #20)
* Enterprise Advisory Group (ref: #18)
* Welcome @mihaiep as User Feedback Member (ref: #30)
* Add meeting template (ref: #28 (comment))
* Participation and Node.js Community session at Index 2018 (ref: #29 and nodejs/admin#44)
* 2018-02-09 Public User Feedback Meeting - Node.js Benchmarking (ref: #27)

# Invited
   * Dan Shaw (@dshaw - User Feedback Champion, CommComm observer)
   * Mike Hostetler (@mikehostetler - User Feedback member)
   * Mihai Ene-Pietrosanu (@mihaiep, User Feedback member)
   * William Kapke (@williamkapke - CommComm, User Feedback member)
   * Michael Dawson (@mhdawson, TSC Chair, CommComm, User Feedback member)
   * Tierney Cyren (@bnb - CommComm Co-Chair)
   * Tracy Hinds (@hackygolucky - CommComm)
   * Greg Wallace (@gtewallace - Node.js Foundation)
   * Bradley Farias (@bmeck - end user representative from GoDaddy)

**TOPIC**
# Notes
We are approaching 150-160 Benchmarking survey answers. Will be great if by the end of January (end of survey submission) 
will have around 200 (Tierney tweeded, thank you). Pushed on media to get more answers.   
**Thank you Joel** for joining this meeting.

     * One of the challenges is not everyone can be on github and for some users we do not have a real time 
       channel of communication and may be reflected on how to be engaged in Node.js
     * (Joel) Tweeter and Github are working well for the people interested in Node.Js  
     * Join Node.js Slack: http://nodeslackers.com 
     * Enterprise Advisory Group- we are looking at quarterly cadence with a proposal in mind for an on-site meeting,
       to learn how our large installs of Node.js are being used and provide direct feedback from those individuals.
       At this point probably it will be beginning of March.
     * Add meeting template (ref: #28 (comment))  
     * (Tierney)-create the issue for the next meeting automatically : there are 4 different types of files.
       Mihai will create a PR and will work on this 
     * Index 2018 Moscone West, San Francisco
     * 2018-02-09 Public User Feedback Meeting: since the Benchmarking WG will not have time 
       to digest the results of the survey, focus on why to questions were asked and what 
       the WG will try to accomplish and the potential direction we are looking for.  

*Closing Thoughts*

* **Upcoming Meetings 2.9.2018** https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/27 
* The next meeting is scheduled for Friday, 2018-02-09 at 17:00 UTC / noon ET / 11am CT / 9am PT.
* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar
 - Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own calendar.
 
