# Node.js Foundation User Feedback Meeting 2018-12-07
## Links

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HlkyGiAG4ew  
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/105  
* **Minutes Google Doc**: [Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13wgfgJpuGF2Jepzcc44-jGLGxaHOL1DCMy5dmHE_MMA)

## Present
* Dan Shaw (@dshaw)
* Joe Sepi (@joesepi)
* Mihai Ene-Pietrosanu (@mihaiep)
* Sofia
* User Feedback Members: @nodejs/user-feedback

## Agenda

## Announcements

*Extracted from **user-feedback-meeting** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### nodejs/community-committee

* Individual Membership: Current and Past Members Survey [#375](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/375)

### nodejs/user-feedback

* Upgrading Problems - Can we help? [#96](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/96)
* Evolving General User Feedback by hosting an online Node.js Meetup [#82](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/82)
* Public User Feedback request - Promises [#77](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/77)
* Survey for strong(er) typing [#61](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/61)

## Notes
* Thank you, Sofia for your feedback and participation.
* Dan: from the last Enterprise public meeting, more diverse use cases is going to give us a better insight and enable us to inform 
  the project.
* Joe, update on surveys: I posted in the GitHub issue that I would try to carry the promises survey forward and updated the Google 
  document related with the questions that had been put so far, there was some commentary on the questions and the answers that 
  I have not been able to fully  synthesize but we’ll work on that. I will work through kind of process and package it all up as best
  I can, and then ask for any input we move forward in the coming days and next week; I met with Sophia and Tracy from the Foundation,
  we can formalize the process so that we can apply it to the migration and upgrading survey that has been mentioned an any other 
  surveys that we want to put together moving forward. There is progress, on promises in particular, so we can formalize this. 
* Dan: Does make sense for us to kick to Julien or Ben  able to handle some of these instances? 
* Joe: I’ll like to do that, and I’ll ping them so if they can help. I’ll reach out to them. 
* Dan: I know that Netflix is doing an operational push into Node 10 where historically promises  haven’t been good for their 
  observability infrastructure and now with the adoption of 10, they fill like getting the point where a post mortem analysis 
  and other infrastructure they rely on is good enough to greenlight promises. 
* Mihai: Are we targeting a number of questions? How many? Do we still need more questions now?
* Joe: We may have 10 or 15, we might want to let the survey take its own shape.
* Mihai: We may want to be more aggressive on different channels to get more questions/feedback.
* Dan: The risk if we don’t push it out with enough context, we risk doing a lot of effort.   
* Joe: Do you think we are near the end, we want a call with the key stakeholders to discuss and make sure we have the right questions?
* Dan: Looking at the calendar maybe to have a meeting with go no-go question. Invite Benjamin and Julien. 
* Dan: Sofia, what are we looking at in terms of technology solution? Do we have a tech choice for the survey?
* Sofia: I took the notes and the doc is shared.
* Dan: what we have is the reports from SurveyMonkey, what we don’t have is access to the actual survey instance. 
  What tool are we going to use?
* Sofia: SurveyMonkey is good. 
* Dan: If you could work with Tracy figure it out what it takes to get SurveyMonkey up and running for us, in January time frame,
  that will be fantastic. 
* Sofia; How did you send the survey the last time?
* Dan: Once we publish the survey then we did some rudimentary promotion of it; everybody promote it to their Twitter .
  We need to be respectful of the annual survey data collection run by Foundation. 
* Sofia: I can propose/prepare for the next meeting, a list of channels where we could promote.
* Dan: Is it possible to ask Ben or Julien if they be willing to write a blog post? I know Ben is super passionate 
  about high performance Promises.


## Q&A, Other

## Upcoming Meetings

* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.
