## 2018-02-20 Index2018 User Feedback Conference

* **Useful links:** 
   * http://oneops.com/
   * http://www.electrode.io/
   * http://www.electrode.io/docs/what_is_electrode.html 
                
## Node.Js:
* Mark Hinkle, Michael Dawson, Tierney Cyren, Dan Shaw, Mihai Ene-Pietrosanu
## Walmart Labs engineer team:
* Joel Chen and Shen

## Intro-by Dan Shaw
* We want to create a bidirectional channel for the project and the best way to do that is in person,
  we will get immediate feedback. 
  **Thanks to Joel and his engineers team from Walmart Labs for their feedback.**
* Dan: Could you describe how Node.Js is use at Walmart?
* Joel: Walmart Labs has a long history from 2012 with a development with Happy.js and Walmart Labs
  has a flourishing Node.Js community who continuously use Node.js to develop their applications.
  About 2 years ago Walmart decided to introduce a back-end based on Node.Js. Many teams used Node.Js
  but everyone wrote their own scripts (for monitoring cloud, build, logging) 
  Walmart Labs has its own cloud infrastructure called OneOps , trying to offer Node.Js as a first-class 
  citizen on the platform, but initially they did not have enough knowledge on Node.Js, 
  they were based on Java and Ruby developers.
  * The pilot team developed a non-critical app on Node.Js/React.Js and ultimately
  every team decided to migrate all apps from Java to Node.Js 
  (security, monitoring, education, stability, on boarding). 
  * Walmart spent significant resources in training Node.Js developers.
  They use Redoc and server -side rendering
  Today on Walmart.com everything is running on Node.Js.
  
* Dan: Can you described what you encapsulate in the Electrode project to help engineers at Walmart to be successful?  
* Joel: Electrode has started as exploratory project at Walmart Labs when they were looking
to migrate the existing Walmart UI. Node.Js came as a natural transition. 
The problem observed was the internal fragmented effort of every team. 
Electrode provides a unified all-in-one solution for Walmart Labs developers for development,
unit testing, deployment CI/CD. The part that is open source from Electrode is collection of modules,
web packs configs and scripts that developers can take and create their own React.Js apps.
* Dan: Thanks for the high-level overview. Any technical questions?
* Michael: That’s a really great success story. How do we make that happen more often?
What are the things that the TSC can do on the community and foundation side, 
that would have helped you in this?
* Joel: First thing: the talent pool to reach a critical mass. Next have someone passionate about Node.Js
(Joel has a more then 15 years of Java script and embraced Node.Js from the beginning).
Last but not least support from the executive team. Walmart had all these 3 together. 
* Michael: On the talent pool, one of the things that the community started to push forward
is a initiative called Node.js people everywhere, the reason behind that is there are companies
who want to get involved in Node.Js but they want to know that there are enough developers to hire.
And there are people who want to work in Node.Js, but there is not necessarily a match between these two. 
These has been raised in Comm-Comm . Interested companies could provide a profile. Similarly, for developers.
This will bring people together. Would be this of interest?  
* Joel: There is plenty of resources in Node.Js.
(Joel wrote a blog saying that Node.Js is the number 1 developer platform, soon to exceed Java)
  * Walmart took a significant risk putting a large part of the infrastructure on Node.Js.
  This deployment is not just for Walmart Labs, it is for all Walmart.com. 
  Walmart is such a large company, the largest employer in the US. 
  * Beyond Walmart Labs there are other technology groups @Walmart using this infrastructure.  
* Tierney: Are they using Electrode as well?
* Joel: Some of them are transitioning to Electrode others are building internal tools. 
Walmart itself has a gazillion of internal tools. There are teams using Java, Angular.Js 
and more and more want to migrate to Electrode. 
One of the first vison for Electrode was to provide shareable and reusable components. When Walmart.com
was on Java we had a dozen teams building different parts of the website, building their own UI components. This was a problem for us to solve.  When an internal team comes to ask for help with migrating to Electrode, we have to tell them that Electrode has 500+ React modules, all geared towards e-commerce. First characteristic of internal tools is they have to be plotting graphs.  This is one challenge for internal teams. 
* Tierney: How can the Foundation help getting more developers move to Node? 
* Joel: What is already there is awesome. Motivation to developers is to build skills that are reusable.
We picked Node.Js /React.Js because large companies like Google are investing big in it.
Due to this from version 6 to 8 we are seeing 60% performance improvement.
It’s about the community, bringing people together, spreading the word.
I like the fact the core team is going out there and attracting more contributors, 
from 1500 last year to 1900, make people fill part of the community. In turn it will be easier for companies to hire.

* Mark: Do you provide training internally or is there other place to get the expertise?
* Joel: We mainly train in Javascript and Walmart Labs infrastructure/Electrode.
We look for computer science graduates who already have the fundamental OS knowledge. 
* Dan: From the opposite direction where and why can I use Node today?
* Joel: The hardest thing about Node for Java developers is that it is single-threaded. 
All the architecture designs evolve around the single-threaded of the JavaScript ecosystem.
Some of the things we do with the CPU intensive stuff, we outsource to a separate process and use 
IPC and deal with them this way, allowing the Node.js process to continue servicing incoming requests.
As we gain success with Node.js at Walmart Labs we got people from mid-tier service 
coming and asking to write their service in Node.js with Electrode. 
  * I have to give them a mixed-response as it depends on the nature of their service.
    If the service needs to talk to a back-end database (like a Redis, Oracle) there can be challenges.  
  * When people want to connect to OracleDB and they use the Oracle client they have to increase
    the libUV pool size from 4 to a larger number because when we say that Node is Asynchronous single-threaded,
    people misunderstand that. If you use any Async operation that involves that thread pool you are going 
    to run into limits. Those are the kind of problems that we run into.
  * We have a lot of success in using Node as a web server in dealing with websites
    but as a Mid-Tier service we are still experimenting on that. 
* Dan: How do you do logging? What would you like to see more information about the ability to do logging today? 
* Joel: Logging…is my nightmare. We have this thing called “transaction logging”. 
When a request comes in, we log “Begin transaction”. This is not like a database transaction.
Everything log from this point on, every log in between, should be enclosed within certain context.
Because our web server acts as a proxy only. So, all the browser requests come into the web server
which only fires an Async request to our back-end which is a database. 
If something happens in production we need to see the user transaction ID and everything
that happened for this transaction ID, to trace all from starting the webserver to mid-tier 
servers to the database. This transaction logging is easier to do in Java than in Node.js.
   * We talked to Java developers and they said, “it’s important, we must have this”.
     And against my better judgement, we went for something called “continuous local storage”. 
* Tierney: What are you doing for monitoring?  
* Joel: We have internal a project called Medusa, using Apache Kafka back-end which allows us 
to send metrics to it and then collect them and plot them in graphics. 
For Electrode the internal part we use a metrics library, 
we collect events from the app and every minute we calculate a digest (hash) of this event and we send it to Kafka.
   * The way it works is that I have a separate Node process that does most of the legwork
   of collecting metrics and aggregating them and sending to Kafka. Every time some event happens, 
   it is being sent to this app/process. This is the main part of the application performance monitoring framework.
   * Most of the app teams, when roll out a new build, they will look at this dashboard of metrics and graphs. 
   The events we collect from the app: event loop latency, memory usage, CPU usage, 
   no of incoming requests, time to respond, etc. 
   
* Question from the room for Shen:  What is a hurdle or a challenge that you encountered? 
* Shen: I was working on a part that Joel referred to as Electrode archetype. I was working on an archetype that centralized manages all the configuration for the applications and the components. A challenge was the migration for the newer version, e.g. for React from 15 to 16.  We see some issues and we need to apply those changes to each of the teams in Walmart. Plus, from Node6 to Node 8 there are some issues.
* Dan: inside of Electrode you have Node, React, Webpack, what are the other major platforms?
* Shen: We have Babel, Redux 
* Dan: which one is the hardest to migrate?   
* Shen&Joel: Webpack
* Mihai: In terms of regressions, when you find a bug in Node.js, how do you go about reporting it? 
* Shen: We distinguish if it’s a Walmart internal issue or if it’s in Node. 
  If we are sure it’s in Node, I will do a google research to see if people have 
  similar questions and if they found a solution already. If I still cannot find anything, 
  I will file an issue on the github and ask people who is the owner of that. 
* Mihai: Even if it’s a problem that someone else found and solved it, 
  would still be good to report it to Node.js project to understand which version is affected. 
* Question from room: about continuous local storage. Have you tried async … as an alternative to that? 
* Joel: We ran into similar problems. 
  That is the kind of feedback that we would like. 
  It is still experimental but if it’s something where it’s not actually solving the problem 
  would be good to know now because once it’s out of experimental it will be harder to change the APIs. 
* Dan: When do things fall off the visibility when you go through your locks? 
* Joel: As far as locks, other than the continuous local storage and transactions stuff, 
  our locks are standard. 
  We use Bunyan as transport and our locks go to Splunk. We use Bunyan to write our logs as JSON text onto file or disc. 
* Question from the room: For any performance issues, how do find out which part is affected? 
* Joel: We monitor a couple of basic metrics, like latency, incoming requests, the time it take 
  to respond to incoming requests and we also log service calls. This is where the transaction 
  comes in as you make a service call. 
* How do you act if it’s above the threshold? 
* Joel: to determine that it’s a problem with the SLA, when our site is continuously running, 
  we always have a list of stacks that we know when we are operating in parameters. 
  We continuously look at that day over day, hour over hour graphs. We plot our graphs continuously
  in our NOC (Network Operating Center), we look like NASA. Any time the graph shows what is the nominal 
  value and you get called, at 3am. Everyone gets called, everyone gets together and tries to find what’s going on. 
  * We try to figure out what is causing the graph to go up, which service is not performing well.
  Typically, more than half of the time the back-end is having an issue. 
  Sometimes our cloud infra may have problems.  And if we find anyone of those, we fix them. 
  It is rare that it is caused by a bug in Node.js. Typically, it happens after a new deployment. 
* Dan: We’ve asked you a bunch of questions. Now turning the tables, do you have questions of the Node.js project?
* Joel: Walmart Labs is using a lot of open source and is on Node.js for a few years.
  Is there a process that Walmart Lab can look into contributing back? 
* Tierney: Having people from the Node.js foundation or from larger companies,
  like IBM, who have done that may be helpful for us to get together as a group 
  under the Comm-Comm and discuss.
* Michael: from my perspective, that is a good idea because IBM is a big company
  and I've often helped people look across the projects and helped them figure out where to get started. 
* Tierney: there are a lot of companies contributing to Node, for example a lot of my time
  is dedicated to contributing to Node in addition to my work role. Having this as a resource
  for people is important. Doing something like “How I got into Node” series with companies
  who contribute a lot and sharing that would be another way to approach that. 
* Joel: We want to reciprocate and contribute back to Node. 
* Michael: Look at the strategic initiatives and see if there is an area that is of interest for you. 
* Joel: I am fairly up to date with what is happening in Node, like AsyncIO, HTTP2, 
  and the continuous improvement with V8, what is one feature that is important to you.  
* Michael: Personally, I am working on N-API and I think that is exciting. 
  Modules is one that’s going to be important. 
  A lot of people who have interest but on the day-to-day people who are contributing code, 
  I believe there is room for more involvement. Diagnostics would be my 3rd top. 
  If you look at the summary that will come out from the Diagnostics summit, 
  you will see there is a lot of work. 
* Tierney: for me Modules is going to be very important in the long run for us. 
  One of my passions is in docs. So many things in our docs that can be improved. 
* Mark: Mine is not nearly as technical but is certification. 
  There is such a demand for Node.js developer but there is no bar, other than asking
  Java questions code into their JavaScript code. If they went through and pass a certification
  it would make your hiring process much smoother. And it would make a lot of good developers
  to have credentials which will help them move to better and better jobs.
* Dan: In the Node ecosystem we’ve become this proving ground for the JavaScript.
  A lot of standards work that happens. And the first environment 
  where you get deep usage impact is in the Node platform. HTTP2 is embedded
  into the browser and you have the ability to use it on the client-side, 
  data coming at you and the browser can optimize a few things for you.
  * With the introduction of HTTP2 we have for the first time in developer’s help 
  a client for HTTP2 to do whether they need. Application developers will be able
  to do things with flow control and data as it’s coming across the stream. 
  
**Thanks to the Walmart Labs team for this great session.**
