## Node.js Foundation User Feedback Meeting 2018-10-26
## Links

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z-j00gVUEpM
* **GitHub Issue**: [Issue 95](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/95)

## Present

* User Feedback Members: @nodejs/user-feedback
  * Dan Shaw @dshaw
  * Michael Dawson @mhdawson
  * Tierney Cyren @bnb
  * Mihai Ene-Pietrosanu @mihaiep
  * Christopher Hiller @boneskull
  * Joe Sepi @joesepi
  * Agiri Abraham Jr @codeekage
  * Ahmad Nassri @ahmadnassri

## Agenda

## Announcements

*Extracted from **user-feedback-meeting** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### nodejs/community-committee

* Individual Membership: Current and Past Members Survey [#375](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/375)

### nodejs/user-feedback

* Evolving General User Feedback by hosting an online Node.js Meetup [#82](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/82)
* Public User Feedback request - Promises [#77](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/77)
* Survey for strong(er) typing [#61](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/61)

### Notes
* It is almost one year and it’s time to see what we are going to accomplish and what we can’t commit to. We voted that Friday is working for all of us in terms of bi-weekly meeting (no changes in calendar) .
* This week Dan was asking if anybody needs to step down. 
* Michael: in the other groups, it’s a process where we open an issue saying if you still want to be active or move to emeritus; ping after 2 weeks if not answer after 4 weeks of no answer we move people to emeritus, but if you get back in the next period saying “I was out for a month”, you just get added back.
* Michael: It’s a fairly low bar, and even if you missed it for a month there’s a way back. We did it for benchmarking, Diagnostics. We might want to formalize that every working group should do that once a year, or every 6 months it’s a fairly overhead.
* Tierney: Node.Js website is a good example having like twenty contributors and about two of the were active, for a year and a half. 
* Dan: One of our goals with meet-up is engaging general user, breaking out Twitter, our collective twitters and github, to get in front of broader user base, to reduce the burden of doing so to us as low a threshold as possible; we aren’t needing to engage a marketing apparatus  as much to promote our things. Maybe engage Tracy Lee, Zibby and Foundation representatives to promote the thing for long enough time?
* Dan: from the last meet-up I think we should come up with two things: first let’s define content that we’re going to do and finalize that, for any announcements, for any dates, and then how big we can do, and test the boundaries of that and in order to that well with webinars you kind of need like 90 days, fairly extension promotion to draw folks in overtime/physics time. Take some content that is not just core, having a user share some experience, we’ve had Wallmart in the past. If folks have a proposal this is use case for node, explore that ( I enjoyed American express presentation at Interactive- a user experience).
* Dan: Chris do you still want to leverage the user feedback space and opportunity to support tooling group, or tolling achieved what it needs and that’s going to be a new home?
* Chris: I’m not sure, I talked about this with the group at the club summit and we decided to table that for now, we have plenty of things to do, stuff that needs to get done. I would expect to do another one at some point, I don’t know if it’s going to be a regular occurrence, I guess not, but I can’t say quite yet if we want to move that effort back into that group.
* Ahmad: Enterprise still need a few more tweaks before we can talk about how did that evolved. I don’t see the kind of enterprise group being as active as part of the same community, and somehow it might end up needing a sub community of its own, especially when it comes like call to actions and getting them involved in initiatives that the core team would like to run through for example testing a beta release or getting feedback o performance, either we can replicate and we can make a little corner of it, that we can add these people to without becoming a point of spam and  noise  to them, as those folks who will be part of the enterprises and new companies in the future might be interested in helping out, they don’t want to be overwhelmed either, but I think could be as simple as a newsletter in a call tp action every once in a while when needed and we want to do like these kind of meetings , it’s a personal invite that works best to get these people to give us their time.
* Dan: The Enterprise group would only hear from their focus area?
* Ahmad: My next action is to schedule another community meeting for the enterprise group, but as a requirement for that I think like having that email signup / newsletter/ method of communication, beyond just me sending emails to individuals so people can opt into that conversation and then we can make it easier for follow-ups, especially as we want to start asking for the different working groups what actions they might want to surface whether it’s a survey or  an engagement of some sort so we can make it more structured. Again, the newsletters how would that work? Who would be the person to help?
* Tierney: Zibby. If we want to use the existing work like the prior art that would be the LF mailing list.
* Michael: You want an infrastructure that will manage people getting in and out of the mailing list, I guess.
* Ahmad: It doesn’t have to be an infrastructure it just has to be something separate than public groups so here’s a workflow: if it’s coming from enterprise at node.js.org or something similar that would like this thing distinction for somebody to look in their inbox, they know that this is something to look after and we can add people manually to it, but as long as we’re able to trigger that communication through a centralized thing.
* Michael: We should ask Zibby that there’s something that the Linux Foundation has to help us. 
* Tierney: If we are doing manually emails, it shouldn’t be a problem, but if we want to move from manual careful about GDPR, which they handle very carefully.
* Michael: If you want to give me an action, I can do that , hopefully will be an easy answer.
* Ahmad: We probably want to have a process in which we announced all the working groups that if you have something to ask or to leverage the enterprise connections that we have what is the mechanism to do that? We can have a part of the github repo or issues label, format the email or something.
* Michael: the new opened issue 96 https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/96 , we had at least one Twitter conversation where somebody was saying I’m having trouble updating to node 10, so we thought it actually would be useful to gather that kind of user feedback. Does anybody has any concern before we start to promote this issue?
* Ahmad: monitor and collect data output from discord forum 
* Michael: There’s other discussion like there’s a module which just hasn’t been up updated it’s downloaded 3 million times a week, it will be nice to know if there were five of those modules they will be really good to know that, because in the context of wanted people to move up to ten what could we do?
* Dan: I think it’s a great opportunity to look at these moments in time like the LTS release and what sort of things we can be doing to support other things that are happening in the project. Also, that enterprise newsletter could be solved by having a discussion list, you subscribe to a topic on the discussion list  and you go from there.
* Michael: I'm going to send an FYI to the TSC and comm.comm with the link to that issue and then as long as nobody complains all asks either just to promote it through the Twitter account in the next little while. 


## Q&A, Other

## Upcoming Meetings

* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.
