## Node.js End User Feedback (NEUF) Meeting 2018-01-12

## Links

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QXdnB3c6wT0&feature=youtu.be

* **GitHub Issue:** https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/6 
* **Previous Minutes Google Doc:** https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CMKB5-Jp62I0eWk-8Zw4_Ka3lma5frHZEFax9bx-YNw/edit 

## Present

- Dan Shaw (@dshaw - CommComm observer)
- Mihai Ene-Pietrosanu (@mihaiep)
- Tierney Cyren (@bnb - CommComm Co-Chair)
- Michael Dawson (@mhdawson - CommComm)
- Greg Wallace (@gtewallace - Linux Foundation)


## Agenda

Extracted from [neuf-agenda](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/labels/neuf-agenda) labelled issues and pull requests from the [user-feedback](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback) repo prior to the meeting.

* Intro / Attendance
* [Key Initiatives](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/labels/key-initiative)
  * 2017 Benchmarking WG Survey (ref: https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/22)
   * Big shout out to Greg in helping with get the survey out.
   * Some feedback that we can reword to make sure we clarify scope a
     Bit.
   * Plan to wrap up and the end of the month. So let's keep
     Publicising until then. We have >140 responses already.
   * One main thing we still need to do is figure out how/what can
     be public.  Dan, create issue and invite Tracy to help (Tierney
     Suggested that she would know what we need to do on that front).   
  * End User Feedback - Looking for Participants (ref: https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/20)
    * Sent responses to first batch just after Christmas.
    * Need to send responses to second set soon.
    * Probably in the order or 10 responses.   
  * Enterprise Advisory <strike>Group</strike> Team (ref: https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/18)
    * Lots of discussion, happy with support from CommComm
      yesterday that people are agreement with concept.
    * People are comfortable with user feedback group to continue
      moving this forward.
    * Setup meeting discuss any remaining concerns/issues.

* Enterprise Advisory Group Charter, expectations and responsibilities (ref: https://github.com/nodejs/enterprise-advisory-group/pull/5)

* Request for membership by @jchip, WalmartLabs (ref: https://github.com/nodejs/enterprise-advisory-group/issues/7)

* 2018-02-09 Public User Feedback Meeting - Enterprise User Feedback (ref: https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/27)


* Public user feedback meeting
  * Some discussion about focus.  Michael pitched first as a meet/get
    to know the participants and then use content for the benchmarking
    survey as concrete discussion. 
  * Dan asked about need to let people know that it is public.  Agreed
    we should have text to remind people, out of that we should also
    highlight that its also under the Node.js code of conduct.
  * Dan will follow up with second set of volunteers, will bash agenda
    and work on invite.

**TOPIC**
## Notes
* Intro 

  * We had discussion around Enterprise Advisory group, Dan (@dshaw) labeled these here
    https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/labels/key-initiative 
  * We need to step in and plan 2018-02-09 Public User Feedback Meeting - Enterprise User Feedback (ref: #27), 
  the expectations for this first meeting to be primary brainstorming.
  * The Benchmarking WG survey (big thanks for Foundation and Greg Wallace- for setting everything up and being present during the Holidays) .
  
     (Michael D) Differences between be in who is representing 50 people for example (a reasonable team) and who is representing big teams (350,000)
     
     (Tierney C)The people who are answering are going to be relevant
But also we’ll need to know the input from other (not only representative group or team)

     (Dan S) There are a couple of actions to be done for context at present, we are planning on wrapping up the input from the survey at the end of the month, we need additional promotion from CommComm   and Evangelism WG
  * We have around 140 answers on Bench survey. Will close EOM (end of month)
   
     (Dan S) What is a good number for responses?-statistical relevance/ 100 definitely is an inflection point,
     for the data collected (meaning we’re going well)
     
     (Michael D) The main thing it is what we can make public?
     
     (Tierney C) Tracy may have the imput to do this appropriately 
* Need to create an issue for this (what can we make public…) and invite Tracy (next meeting) 1.26.2018

* User feedback looking for participants issue opened by Michael D https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/20     

(Michael D) We have a good number to get started (it will be nice more people. 10 to 20 responded. 
This will be our first feedback public session (limiting for enterprise users will be too constraining, we’ll need a broader audience)
   
* Enterprise Advisory Group Charter, expectations and responsibilities (ref: nodejs/enterprise-advisory-group#5)
https://github.com/nodejs/enterprise-advisory-group 
* Observations/comments from CommComm co-chairs are not representing position of the Community, unless are specified. Also establish expectations from members: it’s not just you come to the meeting and that’s it, we need members who potentially do outside stuff of the sessions. 
* Last 20 minutes of the meeting were dedicated for the Public User Feedback (February, 9)

(Michael D) We can use the Benchmarking survey that something to discuss as a concrete and see what kind of a feedback we are getting.
We need to open an issue for an open sesion and have Benchmarking survey as a baseline (or having the model in mind)

(Greg W) We need to be tell to the people that we are public and conversation are broadcast, where people can bring their perspective and contribute their thoughts to improve the technology, and because is an open source technology these conversations will be open as well)

(Dan S) Do we need the moderation team?

(Michael D) It’s our responsibility as members that things don’t go off rails. Reminder that this is public and you don’t want to say anything that you don’t want to be seen in public (link to code of conduct?)

(Mihai E-P) We need to close the non-active issues, with all the meetings going on we will have new issues coming and we need to close the old ones.  



**Closing Thoughts**


## Upcoming Meetings 1.26.2018 https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/28 

* The next meeting is scheduled for Friday, 2018-01-26 at 17:00 UTC / noon ET / 11am CT / 9am PT.
* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar
 - Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own calendar.



