## Node.js Foundation User Feedback Meeting 2018-11-09
## Links

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CWdOqf7OMhs 
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/99 
* **Minutes Google Doc**: [Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1e501J778utbBYguBz3kVe-Pdmd6-MJ_sAoeMc9IdR2k)

## Present
* Dan Shaw (@dshaw)
* Joe Sepi (@joesepi)
* Ahmad Nassri(@ahmadnassri)
* Mihai Ene-Pietrosanu (@mihaiep)
* User Feedback Members: @nodejs/user-feedback

## Agenda

## Announcements

* Extracted from **user-feedback-meeting** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### nodejs/community-committee

* Individual Membership: Current and Past Members Survey [#375](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/375)

### nodejs/user-feedback

* Upgrading Problems - Can we help? [#96](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/96)
* Evolving General User Feedback by hosting an online Node.js Meetup [#82](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/82)
* Public User Feedback request - Promises [#77](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/77)
* Survey for strong(er) typing [#61](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/61)

## Q&A, Other

## Notes
* Dan: We have a few surveys in plate and We've been working with Node.Js Foundation team on, how best to execute on that and make it repeatable for a little bit of context. As you know the Foundation runs  annual survey  things like 10 million users it’s grown, last year the User feedback team helped the Benchmarking team run a survey that is very specific to the needs of the benchmarking working group inside of the Node.js project.
* Dan: we have three surveys that have been requested, one on promises, one for stronger typing and one on upgrading: issue #96 https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/96 
* Joe: We’ve met with Tracy Lee and discuss that Greg Wallace used  to assist in the execution from the Foundation side and since his departure were roping in Tracy Lee and her team to help us execute on and moving forward. My plan is to revive that thread and I may start a Google doc and copy all development things from that thread and ask participants to contribute to helps us wrap it up. I’m going try to formalize sort of initiative document, so we can use it as templates for other initiative we like to start, map up what the objective is, what questions we want to ask and how we want to frame it. I’ll get that moving along. We should evaluate moving forward what sort of open-ended survey we can collect migration feedback, upgrade feedback moving forward . Tracy and her team will like to help us formalizing this process, so I expect some kind of documentation on her end to facilitate future initiatives from a volunteer perspective without too much difficulty.
* Dan: we have to build and refine the questions. The next reasonable time for team meeting is December 7 (in 2 weeks is going to be Thanksgiving  weekend), would be the Thursday November 29  10 AM Pacific time -after Comm-Comm meeting ,good for Enterprise meet?
* Ahmad: Yes, the time is good. 
* Dan: Online meet-up. Probably we will wait for February 2019, after Holiday season.
* Issues 96: We need some action on this. Not a feedback in the last 4-5 days. 
* Need to create a new issue on team drive for surveys and collaboration (sensitive data,  team only access or special permissions share)
 

## Upcoming Meetings

* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.
