## Node.js Foundation User Feedback Meeting 2019-03-01
## Links

* **Recording**:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w3pMzh_D9t8
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/131

## Present

* Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
* Ahmad Nassri (@AhmadNassri)
* Dan Shaw
* Tracy Lee
* Kaelyn
* Agri Abraham

## Agenda

## Announcements

* Extracted from **user-feedback-meeting** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### nodejs/community-committee

* Individual Membership: Current and Past Members Survey [#375](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/375)

### nodejs/user-feedback

* Schedule Enterprise Feedback Group Meeting [#122](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/122)
  * Next step is to create the draft communication to the members. Do plan on drafting this
    Weekend.
 * Also working on blog post which will be tied to the communication
 * Related Michael archived the enterprise-advisory-group repo.

* Evolving General User Feedback by hosting an online Node.js Meetup [#82](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/82)
  * 

* Public User Feedback request - Promises [#77](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/77)

* Survey for strong(er) typing [#61](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/61)

## Notes
* Dan: April: current release of version 12 coincide with feedback sessions and work on blog posts and threads continuing with surveys. Action item: Michael will ping Joe asking about survey status.
* Tracy: We have people from the foundation involved on the survey part.
* Ahmad: Issue #122 Schedule Enterprise Feedback Group Meeting: next step is creating the draft communication to the members who want to be part on it.
* Dan: my team from Paypal will be participate there; Netflix also has full approval.
* Dan: for the next meeting we will invite James Snell/brainstorming about the topics we will discuss in May (San Francisco, Portland). 
* Tracy: Create a template for meet-up: organizer view? Speaker view? Node User Feedback slides “ What TSC wants from you. Here are 3 questions we’d like to ask…” Create more issues?
* Michael: In the end we want to help people into the regular channels, basically Github issues, get the discussion around (for example) “what problems have you experienced upgrading, if they’re related to modules, we can point them to the package maintenance repo, if they’re related to de itself we can point them to the node repo, suggesting tagging with a certain tag (tag Upgrade Problems).
* Ahmad: In the terms of sequence we asked about upgrade cycles first, then the packages, direct the potential “flood of noise”/ the right repo.
* Tracy:(draft doc format)  **Upcoming User Feedback Session Ideas**: 
  * June: Workers?
  * Aug: Other technical issues?
  * Sept: Modules?
  * Tooling?
  * Package Maintenance?
  * Diagnostics?
  * How easy is it to get involved in the community? What’s working and what’s not?
  * End user topics-people using node : what are they struggling with? (I’m writing an app,
    what are   my pain points in using node? 
* Dan: How can we track that back and have visibility into what we’re generating? How do we measure who run a session/measuring growth of the user feedback session? issue [#133](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/133)
* Michael: As a group, we should review how much feedback, account of the number of comments that we got on these issues we’ve pointed to and correlation to the sessions that take place.
* Agiri: WEB design survey?


## Q&A, Other

## Upcoming Meetings

* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.
