## NODE USER FEEDBACK SESSION
## 2019-04-25 Node Enterprise Focus Group
## Links
* **Issue #144: https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/144**
* **Minutes Google Doc: [Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15RDN7deM6wf2X271zpayrRSSnqdGO_1S0kTvfx5Agwo/edit#heading=h.d738zifwxt86)**
* **Recording:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PhyHkdoQDac**

## Agenda

* Gather feedback and insights on challenges faced by closed-source projects that use Node.js within the context of large businesses.
* These challenges might not be immediately visible to the open source community, but they have a domino effect on all users.
* The effects of change in the OSS domain to business operations
* The cost of adoption vs. the total cost of ownership for Node.js application development
* The capacity for Node.js to drive business revenue and curb cost burdens
* Call for Actions:
    * Package Maintenance
    * Node Releases: better understand Enterprise plans of adoption and barriers
    * v6 goes EOL in 1 week
    * v12 released on April 23
    
## Invited
* User Feedback Members: @nodejs/user-feedback
* Enterprise Group Members:
  * Aaron Heckmann <@aheckmann> - @paypal
  * William Blankenship <@retrohacker> - @Netflix
  * Adrian Maurer <@adrianmaurer> - @ CGI
  * Joel Chen <@jchip> - @walmartlabs
  * Keith Moore <@AntiqueSounds> - @HewlettPackard
  * Luke Browell <@lukebrowell> - @Sage
  * Steve Tannock <@Stv> - @telus

## Present:
* Ahmad Nassri
* Dan Shawn
* Michael Dawson
* Mihai Ene-Pietrosanu
* Dominykas Blyse
* Keith Moore
* Sumeet Kakkar
* Luke Browell
* Brian Holt
* William
* Steve Tannock
* Aaron Heckmann

### Notes:
* Thank you for participating in this meeting!
* Intro
* Ahmad: How big are the teams in your company and roughly how many packages/software distributions? In in Telus we had 500people
  with  two third software engineers and 1700 software applications about 900 using Node.JS
* Dan: At PayPal we are 22000 and 5000 engineers we are about half Node half Java.
* Brian: we are about 131000 employees and Node it’s one of our biggest platforms.
* Dominycas: the projects I’m envolved right now is fairly small for enterprise but we have very struct security and audit requirements.
* Keith: I’m evangelist in HP for the Node.Js  at the enterprise level and working with a lot of clients using node, so my 
  perspective is deployment scale and security type.
* Luke: I’m based in UK and I work for Sage we’re a fortune 500 with significant accounting and financial service apps in the market,
  globally with over 50000 employees with over 2000 engineers. I’m a principal engineer in optimization team and I get to work with 
  lots of different teams for most of the Node.Js community lead within Sage.
* Ahmad: Version 12 was just released. The pattern I’ve seen is large teams, the legacy applications don’t always get attention,
  how many people who are still running applications on v6 and knowing that v6 is EOL (end-of-life) in less than 2 weeks there is cost 
  for the teams, I’m interesting to hearing if your companies have any interest or have surfaced any patterns in terms of keeping 
  up to date with Node.Js security patches and releases and EOL for older versions of node. 
* Luke: In the terms of keeping up to day, keeping on top of the Twitter or distributions groups , so there isn’t a sort of single
  unified way of getting all of that information.
* Ahmad: Is there anything Node project can do different in terms of not just announcing something and posting on Twitter but in 
  giving you that roadmap and maybe a different file structure or different visibility that help you take that back to your teams
  and roll that part of your planning of your work.
* Michael: The one thing I do want to that though is that beyond being on the repo which has the specific date, it has been every April,
  every October for like over three years, it’s very interesting people still don’t know that because that’s like part we’re trying 
  to achieve. You can just plan for April.
* Ahmad: But how does that roll into the work, like Luke you mentioned you are like an advocate internally and externally, but do you 
  have an uphill battle trying to schedule upgrade work or actually trying to convince product teams to do any sort of upgrades? 
  Do you have to assign budget to it? What is a typical process look like for a team of your size?
* Luke: It’s generally based on either push or pull so the core would be if we need features that are only available in the newer
  runtime versions and push will be if it’s security related patch that we have to patch for. In terms of building those into 
  the cycle what we do is build a little contingency into our planning and just accept the fact there’s going to be updates not just 
  from node but from a whole range of other tools that we use. 
* Keith: Most of my customers are financial services so I think it’s a general trend the weight analyst is basically a very strict
  cadence and the bigger issue for more clients that I work with, is the cadence can’t be spread out too far so if the releases fall
  two or three behind, that becomes an issue. Security patches trump all the other stuff.
* Michael: There is always going to be ad-hoc high security releases for things like open SSL has vulnerabilities, we are discussing
  internally whether something like a regular schedule for lower vulnerability security releases would make sense, so I’d be interested
  in this group input on that in terms of if we plan do those every say four months and roll things up in to them, so basically some 
  things may come out later, some things may not come out at all until the next thing, but that’s probably better than what we do today
  which is basically once we get a critical mass that we think is enough to make a security release even there aren’t high priority 
  ones will go ahead and do that.
* Keith: In my perspective roll them up it’s a good idea.
* Luke: It’s important to take all security patches and do the risk analysis on those.
* Sumeet: One of the challenges we are facing at PayPal is that one of the recent security fixes reduced the header length and a
  lot of our internal teams depending on a high header length it went down to 8k, so stuff like that could be challenging could 
  slow us down releasing some of the security vulnerability fixes.
* William: We ran in something similar and we solved it by passing the flag to increase the size.
* Sumeet: Yes, you have to include an additional flag in the infrastructure itself. 
* Luke: Another constrain in terms of fatigue on the engineers for changes and changes to way of working with different 
  versions of node and that is largely dictated to us by some of the cloud vendors that we use in supported versions of the node. 
* Ahmad: There are a lot of Node.Js 6 dependencies or deployments out there in production how are you planning on addressing
  that in 2 weeks (EOL of version6)?
* Steve: We identified about 25 packages still running Node 6 and like 20 of them can just get banned.
* Ahmad: Have any of your organization or your development teams been able to articulate in one shape or form what is a total cost of 
  ownership for Node.Js based application looks like or a formula around that? Given the complexity of dependency management,
  given the complexities of the web and backend and giving the complexities of knowledge management around those teams,
  there are lessons for Node project to take away, as part of documentation, as part of training materials as part of management 
  solutions that the Node foundation can invest more and just create if they don’t exist, to help organizations.
* Michael: I’d be interested like the specific thing that was mentioned that even turning the flag on requires rolling things out,
  so any feedback on small changes that might help make that easier so for example if you actually take the binaries vet them 
  and could add a default configuration file if that would make that significantly more easier that’s something that would be 
  worth exploring.
* Sumeet: I think it’s a great point rolling a flag out, which means that when the node is launched, whatever it is launching
  it have to make sure that particular is passed in vs configuration which is easier to deploy.
* Ahmad: Where do you spend most of your teams of time and effort, total cost of ownership, is it knowledge management, is it 
  configuration, is it spinning up servers?
* Dan: There is a pretty big delineation at PayPAl between the infrastructure teams that focus on rolling out our capabilities
  and the application teams to focus on building the applications with, those are separate workflows and distinct teams that 
  are managed each of those things so it’s not in the same pool.
* Luke: coming back to the question of total cost of ownership we tend that in a comparative way against other technologies
  and tools for which we have experience within the workforce and quite often one of the blessing of microservices and in general
  is that we’re able to kind of compartmentalize functionality based on those strengths of skills, but in terms of total cost of 
  ownership  we look at the tools and the biggest thing that I can sort of that a striking difference between working with node 
  and with other tools is the fact that node it’s got this plethora of libraries that are fantastic for the choices of standard 
  libraries are rich and varied so having a way of tracking what we as a enterprise organization users are standard node
  libraries is something we have to do outside of the side of npm ecosystem usually ends up in wikis or other tools and the
  review process around what we now accept there’s a library that we’re favoring within the organization is more manual than 
  it feels like it should be, so from that perspective because we don’t have a very rich standard library that’s off the shelf 
  and we have to sort of extend that ourselves with other libraries there is sort of a need there for being able to say 
  “well these are the features are build in node and these are the libraries that this particular enterprise organization uses
  across the board so therefore you can get them from a private npm repo and they’re supported and they’re security checked.
  Its kind like of a hidden cost, but it is also great strength because you don’t have contend with something that’s 
  in the standard library you don’t want to have, you just bring what you need.
* Ahmad: What is the business impact of that?
* Luke: Different organizations using libraries in npm the question is around whether we kind of provide some kind of badging 
  to that when a significant proportion of enterprise consumers of node are using some libraries and we can sort of service that
  in a more visible way generally projects that are quite proud of who uses them they talk about themselves all the time in their
  github repos, but having that kind of data more actively surfaced in a kind of rating system would probably help.
* Michael: I think that fit in the package maintenance team where the effort is to figure it out how we bring people together to make
  sure that the key modules that the ecosystem depends on are in a good state and the first challenge is always like what is that 
  list of modules. You can come up with the top few but then when you go beyond that we needed the sort of the regular feedback and 
  I think the enterprise you should figure into that.
* Brian: You don’t want to stifle the creativity of the ecosystem; I don’t want to end up in like this more Java like scenario
  we like you have ten libraries and if you’re outside of that it’s like niche use case.
* William: Something similar at Netflix, a quick audit of one of our code base showed that like the node modules the directory 
  tree at about 1.7 million lines of code in it which at that point you’ve kind of reached a point of no return in terms of 
  even audit the amount of code you’ve deployed and we’re exploring policy based and enforcement at runtime where you define 
  acceptable behavior of this process is as opposed to exploring like trying actually find a way to systematically evaluate 
  that entire directory.
* Dominycas: You mentioned the number of lines of codes, do you remember how many modules that was individual packages?
  I did a similar thing, on the stuff that we actually deploy that’s besides all the other tooling but just the top level 
  services that we do deploy they depend on around 2000 unique versions and in a week the drift of code basically I compared 
  two sets to snapshots of the whole node modules across (20 repos or so) that’s 2000 unique questions there 3 or 4 thousand lines
  of changed code in a week, there is a case that some of them are reviewable, especially after you rule out certain modules.
* William: I am finding 27 direct dependencies and 1500 indirect dependencies so the module tree kind of explodes 
  once you go down there.
* Luke: You can think all about those modules and you think about node the runtime and then you think about all the platforms
  and tools that we use around that, the dockers, they all have release cadence that we need to go and check out Twitter feeds 
  and our approach is quite ad hoc so my question is: given that node now has fantastic link into that to the Linux Foundation 
  side is there a way we can sort of standardize how we inform businesses about what versions of things are coming out when in 
  a standard way, could we use a standard calendar format so we can have that information literally flying into our project 
  management tools and allowing us to plan for the things we need to do over the next few weeks, where we see that these security 
  updates coming in or we see that there’s a normal release cycle, I don’t think this is a problem that’s isolated to node, 
  is sort of a more general approach to it. 
* Ahmad: Given that this group is the Node Foundation and whatever solution we can but propose or come up with the question is,
  will your business use that? 
* Luke: I think it’s about surfacing risk. What we can do is to ensure the information is available in a consistent form.
* Ahmad: As representatives do you find any challenge in making the case for those type of investments and what are the 
  challenges you’re facing?
* Steve: everything at Telus relates around the business case for what it is better than what is currently there, c
  onversation about what at the enterprise level, new versions like new version node will enable to do offer for us, 
  I think is a really useful thing that Foundation can have like a media package.
* Ahmad: performance is a good example, so the teams can work on at every release of Node.Js.
* Michael: we already have a benchmark group who generates some charts, the challenges, all those things are very valuable,
  we would just need more people to engage to help them happen, because based on the current people who are involved we’re not 
  going to be able to do that.  The sort of framework group is there we just need some involvement if that’s one of priorities.
* Luke: One of the things that we do is we benchmark ourselves, so we’ll run our unit tests and integration test suites. 
* Ahmad: **Cadence for this group? More than happy to do it monthly.** 
* Sumeet: interested in packages. 
* Luke: Maybe we can have like a major and a minor and then just having a more general catch-up that we draw bring agenda items
  up to the larger ones.

 ## Links:
      * https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nodejs/Release/master/schedule.json
      * GitHub.com/sindresorhus/awesome 
      * https://benchmarking.nodejs.org/ 
