# Node.js Foundation User Feedback Meeting 2019-01-18
## Links

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c3lvH2KpM0o
* **GitHub Issue**: [Issue 112](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/112)
* **Minutes Google Doc**: [Minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CXUIUmT9RF8h7kfQQBjlnOz7aIhEXA3ucKZfi9f216s/)

## Present

* User Feedback Members: @nodejs/user-feedback


## Agenda

## Announcements

*Extracted from **user-feedback-meeting** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### nodejs/community-committee

* Individual Membership: Current and Past Members Survey [#375](https://github.com/nodejs/community-committee/issues/375)

### nodejs/user-feedback

* Upgrading Problems - Can we help? [#96](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/96)
* Evolving General User Feedback by hosting an online Node.js Meetup [#82](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/82)
* Public User Feedback request - Promises [#77](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/77)
* Survey for strong(er) typing [#61](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/61)
* Establish and document a framework for User Feedback surveys [#131](https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/113)

## Notes
* Thank you Sofia and Tracy for attending this meeting!
* Joe Sepi: Updates on surveys: trying to contact Ben and Julien and see if they want to help and move forward on Promises.
* Joe Sepi: Updates on surveys: trying to contact Ben and Julien and see if they want to help and move forward on Promises.
  I opened an issue (#113) on developing a framework for User feedback surveys. 
* Dan: Do you feel you need additional experts to contribute to this process?
* Joe: That will be very helpful, from the foundation side as well as anyone who had experience what makes sense to execute a 
  survey and what makes sense to bring benefit back to organization to act on surveys results.
* Tracy: We talked about this last year  and we’re happy when you guys are ready with the first one for us, just take that and create
  the process and stick it up in a pipeline; we want something very repeatable. 
* Dan: it is helpful once we have the content prepared, then we can hand it off to that workflow. Last time we did the benchmarking 
  working group survey, we were able to lean on the Foundation, but the Foundation was leaning on external subject matter expert 
  contractor, so what I think we might need  to sort of get everything across the finish line try to get the Foundation a couple
  hours of individuals time to give us some of key insights into how to ingest the requests for survey put into usable format. 
* Michael: Last time we got good advice in terms of tweak the questions like this, get more concrete answers; Greg moved on but 
  the person he worked for is still there so we should make sure that we have as part as workflow, getting them to review 
  the survey and taking advantage of that expertise that the Foundation can provide.
* Ahmad: Is there a context as well of how we share back the results that has been part of that template or process?
* Michael: That should be part of the process, I think we want to follow what we did with last one which was we landed in Github,
  so the data was public; there were some pieces needed to be removed.
* Michael: Upgrading problems (issue #96, #116 from User Feedback repo) closing in favor of
  https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/136
  as we believe the package-maintenance repo is the right place for this discussion to be handled now.
* Meetup: Tracy: The whole idea we had was to get some folks to test out what it would look like to get user feedback from 
  actual meetups, so we’re thinking maybe Toronto, New York, San Francisco (April?), Ben in Portland, we want to do is create a 
  framework, I’ve been working with Sophie to put together a how-to, in addition we did put on the calendar we have two blog post,
  one here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Kr6A4CAPu8fkYJXaCGTOQWUluSriP0wfMFJMdXRACdg/edit 
* Twice a year is the right cadence for user feedback meetup  (September, February)? 
* Tracy: Once we have a framework for this, all the meetups that are being run by local meetups around the world, feel like
  the owners and are going to do it themselves.
 
## Q&A, Other
 * **Follow-up/New issues**
    * https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/115
    * https://github.com/nodejs/user-feedback/issues/113

## Upcoming Meetings

* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.
